Project Proposal

1. What goal will your website be designed to achieve?

My project will be to create an app similar to goodreads where a user can create an account and store information about the books they've read/are reading. 

2. What kind of users will visit your site? In other words, what is the demographic of
your users?

This will be a site used by people who like to read and share what they are reading with others and also receive recommendations about what to read next. 

3. What data do you plan on using? You may have not picked your actual API yet,
which is fine, just outline what kind of data you would like it to contain.

I would like to use data on books including author, title, cover of the book, isbn number, etc. 

4. In brief, outline your approach to creating your project (knowing that you may not
know everything in advance and that these details might change later). Answer questions like the ones below, but feel free to add more information:
a. What does your database schema look like?

There will be a table to store user data, a table for bookshelves, a table for recommended books, a table for friends

b. What kinds of issues might you run into with your API?

Not being able to make the specific API requests that I want to make

c. Is there any sensitive information you need to secure?

I will need to securly store the users login password

d. What functionality will your app include?

Ability to friend other users, create shelves containing the books the user has read/are reading, rate the books they've read and add read dates, recommend a book to a friend, receive notifications from a friend who has recommended a book, add notes to books, etc.

e. What will the user flow look like?

The user will register and login, then select their favorite genres of books. Once the user has selected their favorite genres of books, they will see a list of recommended books to read and a search bar to look up books. Then they will search for books by title that they have read and add them to a shelf if they have read them. The user will be able to name the shelf and designate the genre of the book they've read, give it a rating, add read dates, and add notes to the book if they want. The user will also be able to search other users by their username and send a friend request. If the other user accepts the friend request, then users will be able to recommend books to each other. 

f. What features make your site more than CRUD? Do you have any stretch goals?

Receiving a list of recommended books to read based on genre is a bit beyond CRUD I believe. Also, being able to send book recommendations to friends is a little beyond CRUD as well I think. 